---

title: "The State of Open-source API Clients"
---


# The State of Open-Source API Clients

**Emil Karlsson, 2024-04-14**


Have you ever wondered why Postman's free version is so limited in terms of collaboration? The free version only allows up to three users per workspace, which might suffice for small hobby projects. However, for larger open-source projects involving more than three people needing to share the same API calls, this limitation becomes a significant barrier. Let's explore the current landscape of open-source API clients and see if there's a better solution available.


## What about Insomnia?

Turning to an open-source alternative like Insomnia seems like a logical step. [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest) is a robust tool equipped with most of the features needed to manage API calls in open-source projects. However, it also has limitations; its free version only supports a single team, which is inadequate for larger projects.


## Can't we just store it in GitHub?

You might think storing API calls in GitHub could bypass these limitations, as both Postman and Insomnia offer GitHub synchronization for primary or backup storage. However, these features are only available in their paid versions ([Postman pricing](https://www.postman.com/pricing/), [Insomnia pricing](https://insomnia.rest/pricing)). Thus, we're back to the original issue of cost for collaboration features.


## Our savior, Bruno!

In the midst of this darkness, though, [Bruno](https://www.usebruno.com) shines a light! Bruno is open-source and aims to be a more transparent alternative to both Postman and Insomnia by storing all the collection and API calls locally in the file system. This means, Bruno does not have any limitations on how many people can collaborate on the same collection, as long as they have access to the same files, which can be stored in a shared folder, or perhaps more realistically, in a repository in GitHub. Bruno comes with paid versions too, but these are mostly for support and additional features, the core functionality is free and open-source. For this reason, Bruno was the next step for kthcloud in the journey to find a better open-source and free API client. As of writing this blog post, though, Bruno is not yet feature complete, including Oauth2 integration, which is a must-have for kthcloud. 


## Conclusion

So what gives? Is there hope for API clients for open-source projects that allow collaboration? Sure! There are many options if you are willing to pay. However, a free option is not yet available, but Bruno is on the right track. We will keep an eye on Bruno and see if it can be the solution we are looking for.
